So just to diagram out this re, what
kind of, the framework reproducible
research I think about.
Typically you have some published article
that you view
you know, in a journal, and that's all you
get.
You get everything that's in the article.
You probably have some exposure to what
their scientific question was, and these
people went into into nature and it was
all, and then there's nothing, right?
And so, you have a, you know, you have a
author whose kind of
starting from here and went that way, and
then the reader kind of starts to
move there and wants to go this way.
But for the most part, in most cases, the
reader can start with the article, and
then they're welcome
to go back to nature, and just, you know,
do it again, or replicate the study if
they want.
There's really not anything else that they
can
do, besides read the article and be
impressed.
So that's the express train to nature.
So, but really, of course, there's all
this other stuff, you
know the data that I call the broad data
or measured data.
There's stuff that happens to that data,
that, so a specific analysis can be done.
There's all this code that is involved to
do that,
there's results, there's figures and
tables, and this and that.
So that all exist, but it's typically not
available, and so the basic idea
of reproducible research is to say, okay
well lets all, lets just meet in the
middle over here, and say let's make the
stuff available to make the analytic
data available, maybe, maybe make some
code
available, some of the preprocessing if
it's important,
things like that.
So that's the kind of reproducibility
compromise short of replicating the whole
study.
So, so I want to get a little into what
problem this reproducibility solve.
And I think one of the things that we get,
from a reproducible study,
is we get transparency of course, we have
a better sense of what they've done.
We get data, the data that they use, so
that's available.
If there's methods involved
that are new, we get their methods.
And we have this more, a kind of increased
transfer of knowledge, because
now we know exactly what they did, not
what they meant to do.
I, I, might be what we do, we don't get
any
sort of sense of whether the analysis was,
was correctly done.
And I think the main reason's because
analysis can
be very, be reproducible and still be
wrong, and
there are many examples of this in the
literature
where something was totally wrong but yet
fully reproducible.
So just
because they don't, the people use the
wrong methods, so they, you
know, they kind of treated the data in the
wrong way and whatnot.
So, I think the fundamental question of,
can we
trust this analysis, is not really
addressed by reproducibility.
These things are all very important so I
think that's fine.
But we still have I think a little bit of
a problem over here, so and one question
you might legitimately ask is you know
does requiring,
if you required every study, every
analysis to be reproducible,
would that somehow deter people from doing
that analysis.
And I, I fundamentally think the answer is
no.
So,
so some of the problems I have with
reproducibility
are, so the premise of reproducible
research is that,
you know, with all the data and all the
code available to people, people can check
each other.
You can kind of validate someone else's
analysis, and the whole
system would kind of be self correcting in
the long run.
Alright.
So one problem which I don't see here is
that the long run sometimes is too long
and then
in terms of the context of the problems
that
you're dealing with I think
reproducibility addresses what I call
most, the kind of downstream aspects of
scientific dissemination.
Now, I'll be more specific about what I
mean by that.
Meaning that it kind of only happens post
publication [INAUDIBLE].
And another key thing which is important
in my area, maybe.
I mean, particularly in my area, is that,
[COUGH]
the ideas of reproducibility kind of
assume that everyone
plays by the same rules, and everyone
wants to
achieve the same goals, which is
definitely not true.